Hello everyone welcome to EnglishPod my name is Marco and I'm Erica and today with
Erica we have a very aggressive lesson for you today. That's true we've got a
revolutionary lesson. Yes today at EnglishPod we're protesting so Erica why don't you
tell us what a protest is? Well when you protest something you go into the streets and show
your disagreement. Right and you yell and you have signs and everyone's just protesting.
And the news comes and if it's not clear now it'll be clear after the dialogue I'm sure.
Definitely definitely so why don't we start with our vocabulary preview.
The vocabulary preview. We have two words in our vocabulary preview today the first is
bankrupt. Bankrupt. Bankrupt. Bankrupt. Bankrupt. Bankrupt. So if a company goes bankrupt what happens?
It means the company doesn't have any more money. So it can't pay salaries. It can't pay any.
It's bills yeah so basically if it's bankrupt it's probably going to close. Exactly.
Okay our second word today is bail out bail out. bail out. bail out. P-A-I-L bail out.
So bail out is when the government gives money to a company that is about to go bankrupt.
That's true it's emergency money that will help save the company. Well these two words are
taken directly from our dialogue and in today's dialogue we're going to bring you live to a newscast.
Right so why don't we just listen to the dialogue?
This is action five news reporter Sarah O'Connell reporting live from Washington DC
where protests has broken out thousands of angry citizens are protesting against the proposed
bailout of the auto manufacturing industry. Sir Sarah O'Connell tell five news can you tell us
what's happening? Yeah yeah we're here because we feel this is an injustice. The financial
responsibility of big business has to stop. We're here to show the government that we don't
like the way they're spending our tax dollars. Sir but what exactly is making everyone so angry?
It's an absolute outrage Sarah the US government wants to give 25 billion dollars of taxpayers
money to the auto industry. These are companies that have been mismanaged and are now nearly bankrupt.
I see but many supporters of the bailout argue that it could help save the jobs of millions
Americans. That may be true and I for what don't want to see anyone lose their job.
But how can these CEOs ask for a bailout when they're making millions of dollars?
And then they have the nerve to fly to Washington in private jets. This cost hundreds of thousands
of dollars. They're asking for money that is just not right. Good point. This is Sarah O'Connell
reporting live from Washington DC back to Utah.
Wow these people are really angry. I think they're furious. Well I think they have some good
points and we'll talk about that later. But now it's time for language takeaway.
Language takeaway. There was some great language in this dialogue. A lot of language we use to
express our anger. Right and one of those words and the first one for language takeaway is
injustice. injustice. And injustice. So an injustice is something that isn't fair.
It's totally unfair. It's unfair. Yeah. This isn't injustice. Let's look at our second word
outrage. outrage. Outrage. And outrage. So Erica why don't you give us an example on how you would use
outrage. There's no more coffee. This is an outrage. Yeah that's an outrage. Okay. Let's go to our next
word now. Breakout. Breakout. Breakout. Breakout. Breakout. Breakout. So we have some great examples
on how we use breakout. So let's listen. Example one. War is broken out in Antarctica as countries of
the world fight for control of the icy continent. Example two. Officers are warning that
fighting could break out in the border regions. Example three. A forest fire broke out last night.
Well this is a wonderful phrasal verb that means to begin suddenly. Okay so I think that's pretty
clear. Yeah. Breakout. Let's go to our next word now. Mismanaged. Mismanaged. Mismanaged.
So when something is mismanaged it's not managed properly. Managed poorly, right? Yeah.
Our final word today is have the nerve tube. Have the nerve tube. Have the nerve tube.
I think this one also is a little bit difficult to understand. Yeah but we have some great examples
prepared for you. So let's listen to them. Example one.
I've been in love with you since the third grade but I didn't have the left to tell you.
Example two. I don't believe it. You have the nerve to ask me from my name when you know I've
just lost my job. Example three. What? You have the nerve to bring your new girlfriend to visit
my mother. So have the nerve tube is like dare to do something right? Yeah how dare you.
Yeah have the nerve tube. It's like I can't believe you would do that. Yeah I think that's
quite clear. Yeah okay. A lot of great words in our dialogue today and also we have some
really interesting grammar in today's dialogue. Right so today let's look at some
grammar breakdown. Gramma breakdown. In this section grammar breakdown we show you a
particular grammar structure and explain a little bit about how that structure affects meaning.
So it's not really about getting the grammar perfectly right? It's about understanding the meaning.
Right and in today's lesson we saw some really great examples on how we use the present
perfect tense. Let's listen to an example from the dialogue. We're protests has broken out.
We're protests has broken out. See the verb here break out like a protest has broken out
happened in the past right? Right. And it's still going on now. Exactly. So present perfect is used
when we're talking about a event that happened in the past and is continuing on now. Exactly.
Or is continuing to affect now? Exactly. Okay I think that's pretty clear. Yeah but now if you
want to indicate or if you want to demonstrate that the action has finished the event is over
then you would say it like this. A protest broke out. A protest broke out.
This form you see that the protest is over. It happened yesterday already. Right and I think it's
really emphasizing the fact that it is no longer affecting the present moment. Exactly. So remember
the difference between present perfect and simple past. Now if you want to know more about
these tenses present perfect and simple past be sure to go to our website at englishpod.com
in the grammar section you can find some more great examples and a really clear explanation
how these tenses are formed. But now we are ready to listen to our dialogue a second time.
This is action five news reporter Sarah O'Connor reporting live from Washington DC
where a protest has broken out thousands of angry citizens are protesting against the proposed
bailout of the auto manufacturing industry. Sir Sarah O'Connor tell us what's happening.
Yeah yeah we're here because we feel this is an injustice. The financial and responsibility
of big business has to stop. We're here to show the government that we don't like the way they're
spending our tax dollars. Sir but what exactly is making everyone so angry. It's an absolute
outrage Sarah the US government wants to give twenty five billion dollars of taxpayers money
to the auto industry. These are companies that have been mismanaged and are now newly bankrupt.
I see but many supporters of the bailout argue that it could help save the jobs of millions
of hardware from the Americans. That may be true and I for what don't want to see anyone lose their
job. But how can these CEOs ask for a bailout when they're making millions of dollars?
And then they have the nerve to fly to Washington in private jets. This cost hundreds of thousands
of dollars. They're asking for money. That is just not right. Good point. This is Sarah O'Connor
reporting live from Washington DC back to Utah.
Okay Erica so what do you think about this situation?
About the bailout of the auto industry. I think it's a bad idea. Why? There's so many reasons.
I mean I don't think it's fair for us as taxpayers. Well I guess I'm not really an American
but I don't think it's fair for the taxpayers to have to pay for the mismanagement of these
companies. I mean they've got so much debt. They've produced cars that nobody really wants to buy
and now they're in trouble and it's not our money that should be spent on saving them.
Yeah I would agree with you on that but you do have to take into consideration the fact that
if these companies go bankrupt thousands of people will lose their jobs and not only the people
that work at the factories but also people that work for other companies that supply these factories.
Yeah I mean I see what you're saying Marko but at the same time we can't support an industry
that isn't working properly. I mean if one of these companies goes bankrupt it's going to be
terrible but it will force the other two companies perhaps to manage themselves better to
streamline and become more efficient. I just think it will be better in the future.
Well it could be but also maybe all three companies can go bankrupt. It would be sad because
the American car the American auto industry is a symbol of prosperity. It's also the symbol of like
the American culture in general. I guess that's true. So it would be a shame for it to go bankrupt
because everyone owns a car in the United States or most people and it's just something that we can't
but it is an interesting topic and we also want to know your opinions about it.
Yeah listeners please come to our website at englishpod.com and tell us what you think about this
bailout and about this lesson. On the website we'll post a link to the news article where you can
read a little bit more about this because this is actually going on now. That's true. Well everyone
thanks for listening and until next time. Bye.